(DOCSP-26636) @realm/react-ify the Quick Start page (#2617)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/react-native/quick-start.txt

   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This page demonstrates how to use Realm Database using the React Native SDK.

Before you begin, install :ref:`install the Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>`.

About the @realm/react Library
------------------------------

:github:`@realm/react </realm/realm-js/tree/master/packages/realm-react>` is a

> library used in the React Native SDK. It provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data.
> 
> This means you don't need to manually add and remove listeners. The hooks watch
> the Realm data and re-render components as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
library used in the React Native SDK. It provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data. The hooks watch the Realm data and re-render components as needed.
```

at some point you might need to add remove listeners so lets avoid saying that here and focus on what the library _does_ do

> The React Native SDK documentation uses``@realm/react`` for examples 
> and describing concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React Native SDK documentation uses``@realm/react``
npm package for examples and describing concepts.
```

Set Up Your Realm App

> ---------------------

Reviewer: for all the subsections within this section, please link to the relevant ref for our documentation in each subsection. eg the 'Define a Object Model' section should link to the 'Define an Object Model' page.

as an example of what i mean, see the Flutter Quick Start https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/flutter/quick-start/#work-with-realm-objects, and how it has the line like "For more information, refer to [Read and Write Data](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/flutter/realm-database/read-and-write-data/#std-label-flutter-read-write-data)."

After installing the Realm React Native SDK and ``@realm/react``, there are a
few more things to set up before you can access your realm and work with local
data:

- Import hooks from ``@realm/react``
- Define an object model
- Configure a realm

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-import-realm:

Import Context and Providers From @realm/react
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the top of your source files where you want to use Realm, import the
``@realm/react`` context and providers.

``AppProvider`` and ``UserProvider`` are only necessary if you want to use
:ref:`Atlas Device Sync <react-native-realm-sync>` or other App Services.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-import-hooks.tsx

>   :language: javascript

Reviewer: can you refactor this code example to only import `createRealmContext()` and then only talk about the 2 providers in the Device Sync-specific section. 

i say that b/c the rest of the section is local Realm DB-only. so doesn't make sense to import that stuff here.

         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript

Work With Data
--------------

After you have a data model and a configured realm, you can create, update, or 
delete :ref:`Realm objects <react-native-object-types>`.

To use those tools, you need an open realm. This means that object hooks and 
methods only work in components that are nested inside of ``<RealmProvider>``;
In a component wrapped with a ``<RealmProvider>``, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to your realm that you can use to work with the database.

Any changes to a Realm object must occur within a 
:ref:`Write transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-find-sort-and-filter-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-watch-a-collection:

Find, Sort, and Filter Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``@realm/react`` provides a couple of hooks to help you find a Realm collection
or object.

- ``useQuery()``. Returns ``Realm.Results`` for the object type that you pass to it.

>   If you can't use this hook, try the Realm method
>   :js-sdk:`Realm.objects() <Realm.html#objects>`.
> - ``useObject()``. Returns one ``Realm.Object`` for the object type and primary key 
>   that you pass to it. If you can't use this hook, try the Realm method
>   :js-sdk:`Realm.objectForPrimaryKey() <Realm.html#objectForPrimaryKey>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``useObject()``. Returns one ``Realm.Object`` for the object type and primary key 
  that you pass to it.
```

let's remove these lines b/c:

1. i think it complicates the quick start more than necessary. 
2. there isn't explanation of when you wouldn't be able to use the hook (i assume this is when there isn't yet a sync sub, which is a fairly different use case)

After instantiating ``useRealm()``, you can use Realm methods to create, modify,
and delete Realm objects inside of a :js-sdk:`write transaction block <Realm.html#write>`.

For more information, refer to :ref:`Write Transactions <react-native-write-transactions>`.

Create Objects
``````````````

To create a new Realm Object, specify the object type, pass in the object's
initialized values, and add it to the realm in a write transaction block:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-create.tsx
  :language: javascript

Modify Objects
``````````````

To modify a Realm Object, update its properties in a write transaction block:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-modify.tsx
  :language: javascript

Delete Objects
``````````````

To delete a Realm Object, call the :js-sdk:`Realm.delete() <Realm.html#delete>`
method in a write transaction block:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-delete.tsx
  :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-close-a-realm:

Add Atlas Device Sync (Optional)
--------------------------------

> After getting your local-only realm running, you may want to add Atlas Device Sync
> so that your realm data can be synced with an Atlas cluster and other client devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After getting your local-only realm running, you can add Atlas Device Sync
so that your realm's data can sync with a MongoDB Atlas cluster and other client devices.
```

   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

> This Quick Start demonstrates how to use Realm Database with the React Native SDK
> and ``@realm/react`` library.

Reviewer: right now this reads weird to me to say 'React Native SDK' *and* '@realm/react'

consider instead rephrasing line to say: 

```suggestion
This page demonstrates how to use Realm Database using the React Native SDK.
```

> Before you begin, ensure you have :ref:`installed the 
> Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>` and ``@realm/react`` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, install :ref:`install the Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>`.
```

About the @realm/react Library
------------------------------

> :github:`@realm/react </realm/realm-js/tree/master/packages/realm-react>` is an 
> additional library that works with and relies on the React Native SDK. It 
> provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data. This means you don't need to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:github:`@realm/react </realm/realm-js/tree/master/packages/realm-react>` is a  library used in the React Native SDK. It provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data.
This means you don't need to 
```

manually add and remove listeners. The hooks watch the Realm data and re-render 
components as needed.

> The React Native SDK documentation defaults to using ``@realm/react`` for examples 
> and describing concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React Native SDK documentation uses``@realm/react`` for examples 
and describing concepts.
```

Set Up Your Realm App
---------------------

> After installing the Realm React Native SDK and ``@realm/react``, there are a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the ``realm`` and ``@realm/react``, there are a
```

Author: I'm not sure I follow what you're trying to do with this suggestion. Trying to shorten "Realm React Native SDK" or make it refer to a specific realm instance?

Reviewer: no, i'm saying that there isn't some package which correlates with the Realm React SDK. rather there are 2 packages which together are the Realm React SDK, `realm` and `@realm/react`.

Author: ooooooh. Duh. Thanks for the clarification.

Author: Updated in my latest.

few more things to set up before you can access your realm and work with local
data:

- Import hooks from ``@realm/react``
- Define an object model
- Configure a realm

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-import-realm:

Import Hooks From @realm/react
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the top of your source files where you want to use Realm, import the
``@realm/react`` hooks.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-import-hooks.tsx

>   :language: javascript

Reviewer: nothing you're importing here is a hook. it's all context and providers

Author: Ah, yeah. Thank you for catching this.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-define-an-object-model:

Define an Object Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In Realm Database, all data is a type of object. Becuase of this, your 

Reviewer: > In Realm Database, all data is a type of object.

what's this mean?

Author: I'm trying to convey the fact that a Realm app's data is made up of individual objects that you create. On re-reading, I don't think this intro is really necessary. I've cut this para down a bit.

application's :ref:`object model <react-native-object-schemas>` defines the data

> that you can store within a realm. An object model is made up of object types.

Reviewer: somewhere in the first few paragraphs you must mention that the realm object type is extending `Realm.Object`. 

also if in fact you need to include the self-referential type in the Realm.Object definition (ex `class Cat extends Realm.Object<Cat> {}`), pls explain that as well.

> To define a basic Realm object type, create a class that contains a static 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a Realm object type, create a class that contains a static 
```

> ``schema`` field. Within this field, define the object's ``name``, ``properties``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``schema`` field. Within the ``schema`` object, define the object's ``name``, ``properties``,
```

> and ``primaryKey``. You can add other properties, but these three are required.

Reviewer: primary key is not required.

> The type name and primary key must be unique among object types in a realm.

Reviewer: the primary key doesn't need to be unique among types. for example models `Dog` and `Cat` can both have PK `_id`. in fact both *must* have PK `_id` if you're using Device Sync.

.. TODO: Update the JS example below after creating JS version of quickstart.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-define-model.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/Profile.snippet.js-profile-schema.js
         :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-open-a-realm:

Configure a Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. TODO: write intro that links to configure page and adds a little context.
   Maybe include the numbered list and link to the individual sections?

Before you can work with any data, you need to configure a realm. With
``@realm/react``, anything nested inside ``RealmProvider`` will be able to

> access your realm's data and features.

Reviewer: what do you mean by 'features'?

Author: Ha. Thanks for calling this out. I wanted to expand on what you can do here, but didn't have time to be more specific. And now that I'm looking at it again, I don't think anything else is needed.

.. TODO: update configure a realm page with this better approach.

To configure and access a local realm:

#. Import object models

> #. Create a :js-sdk:`Configuration object <Realm.html#~Configuration>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object
```

> #. Create a realm context
> #. Expose a realm

Reviewer: i rec mentioning the SDK members you're using here, such as: 

```suggestion
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``
#. Expose a realm with the ``<RealmProvider>``
```

`````````````````````````````

The Configuration object defines the parameters of a realm and identifies it.
When creating a configuration object, make sure to pass your data models into
the ``schema`` property.

.. TODO: create JS version and add tab

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.configure-config-object.tsx
  :language: javascript

Create a Realm Context
``````````````````````

A realm context is a `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__
that contains context for your realm.

To create a realm context, pass a Configuration object into ``createRealmContext()``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.configure-realm-context.tsx
  :language: javascript

Expose and access a realm
`````````````````````````

To expose a realm, you need a realm context. From that context, extract
``RealmProvider``. This provider contains your realm's context. Components
nested within ``<RealmProvider>`` have access to hooks that let you read, write,
and update data.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.configure-expose-realm.tsx

>   :language: javascript

Reviewer: not sure if these H3 sections are necessary since they're largely repeating the example toward top of the section. i think you can just build out the bullet points toward the top a bit and add some comment annotations on the code examples.

Author: Yeah, I initially broke them out because there are a lot of little steps needed and it can be confusing. However, I think the all-in-one approach might make it even clearer. I've refactored in my latest.

Work With Data
--------------

Realm gives you many tools to work with the :ref:`Realm objects
<react-native-object-types>` you define in your app's 

> object modal.

Reviewer: i don't think this sentence is necessary. 

how bout instead mention you can CRUD data in your realm?

To use those tools, you need an open realm. This means that object hooks and 
methods only work in components that are nested inside of ``<RealmProvider>``;

> Within a nested component, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nested component wrapped with a ``<RealmProvider>``, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to all
```

> Within a nested component, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to all
> the methods available for your realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a component wrapped with a ``<RealmProvider>``, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to your realm that you can use to work with the database.
```

Any changes to a Realm object must occur within a 
:ref:`Write transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-find-sort-and-filter-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-watch-a-collection:

Find, Sort, and Filter Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. TODO: Refine the content in this section

``@realm/react`` provides a couple of hooks to help you find a Realm collection
or object.

.. TODO: maybe refactor to a table. List realm/react, realm method, and their
   shared return?

- ``useQuery()``. Returns ``Realm.Results`` for the object type that you pass to it.
  If you can't use this hook, try the Realm method
  :js-sdk:`Realm.objects() <Realm.html#objects>`.

> - ``useObject()``. Returns ``Realm.Object`` for the object type and primary key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``useObject()``. Returns a ``Realm.Object`` for the object type and primary key 
```

  that you pass to it. If you can't use this hook, try the Realm method

>   :js-sdk:`realm.objectForPrimaryKeys() <Realm.html#objectForPrimaryKey>`.

Reviewer: when would you need to use `Realm.objectForPrimaryKeys()`? also is the method with 'Key**s**' plural?

if it's only in corner cases, i think we can remove from the quick start

Author: Thanks for noticing the typo. Should be singular `Key`.

`useObject()` is essentially syntactic sugar for `Realm.objectForPrimaryKey()`. Is there another way to search for a single object?

.. TODO: Expand on RQL here or link elsewhere

After finding a collection, you can filter or sort the results using Realm

> Query Language (RQL) logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query Language (RQL).
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-find.tsx
  :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-create-realm-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-modify-an-object:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-delete-an-object:

Create, Modify, and Delete Realm Objects

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: i think separate subsections for each of these would make sense

After instantiating ``useRealm()``, you can use Realm methods to create, modify,
and delete Realm objects. For example:

- :js-sdk:`Realm.create() <Realm.html#create>`
- :js-sdk:`realm.delete() <Realm.html#delete>`

These methods rely on you previously finding objects or collections to pass to 

> them. They should be used alongside the``useQuery()`` and ``useObject()`` hooks.

Reviewer: not true for Realm.create(). this method doesn't need an existing realm object

Author: Ha. Yeah, that's kind of why Realm.create() exists. 😄

methods only work in components that are nested inside of ``<RealmProvider>``;
In a component wrapped with a ``<RealmProvider>``, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to your realm that you can use to work with the database.

Any changes to a Realm object must occur within a 
:ref:`Write transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-find-sort-and-filter-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-watch-a-collection:

Find, Sort, and Filter Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``@realm/react`` provides a couple of hooks to help you find a Realm collection
or object.

- ``useQuery()``. Returns :js-sdk:`Realm.Results <Realm.Results.html>` for the object type that you pass to it.
- ``useObject()``. Returns one :js-sdk:`Realm.Object <Realm.Object.html>` for the object type and primary key 
  that you pass to it.

After finding a collection, you can filter or sort the results using 
:ref:`Realm Query Language (RQL) <rql>`.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.tsx
  :language: javascript

For more information, refer to the

> :ref:`Qeury Data <react-native-query-data>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:ref:`Query Data <react-native-query-data>`.
```

   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This page demonstrates how to use Realm Database using the React Native SDK.

> Before you begin, install :ref:`install the Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, :ref:`install the Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>`.
```

About the @realm/react Library
------------------------------

:github:`@realm/react </realm/realm-js/tree/master/packages/realm-react>` is a
library used in the React Native SDK. It provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data. The hooks watch the Realm data and re-render components as needed.

> The React Native SDK documentation uses``@realm/react``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The React Native SDK documentation uses ``@realm/react``
```

npm package for examples and describing concepts.

Set Up Your Realm App
---------------------

After installing the ``realm`` and ``@realm/react`` packages, there are a
few more things to set up before you can access your realm and work with local
data:

- Import hooks from ``@realm/react``
- Define an object model
- Configure a realm

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-import-realm:

Import Context and Providers From @realm/react
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the top of your source files where you want to use Realm, import the
``@realm/react`` context and providers.

``AppProvider`` and ``UserProvider`` are only necessary if you want to use
:ref:`Atlas Device Sync <react-native-realm-sync>` or other App Services.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-import-hooks.tsx
  :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-define-an-object-model:

Define an Object Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Your application's :ref:`object model <react-native-object-schemas>` defines the data

> that you can store within a realm. An object model is made up of object types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that you can store within a realm. An object model is made up of Realm object types.
```

> To define a Realm object type:, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a Realm object type: 
```

> #. Create a class that extends ``Realm.Object``.

Reviewer: API ref link to first reference to type pls

>    For TypeScript, include the class name as a type. This allows the ``Realm.Object``
>    constructor to return a typed instance of the class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For TypeScript, include the class name as a type.
   This lets you use the class with other Realm SDK methods
   that accept ``Realm.Object`` types.
```

#. Add a ``schema`` field.
#. For the ``schema`` value, create an object that contains ``properties`` and 

>    ``name`` properties. The name value must be unique among object types in a realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``name`` properties. The name value must be unique among object types in a Realm object model.
```

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-define-model.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-define-model.jsx

>          :language: javascript

Reviewer: in these code examples add line break between these 2 commented things

<img width="795" alt="Screen Shot 2023-03-17 at 11 11 11 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90647379/225944981-403eda7e-b882-43b2-8161-d5d7a7aeba7b.png">

> For more information, refer to

Reviewer: style guide nit: 'to learn more..." instead of 'for more information'

Reviewer: should this line be above the example?

Reviewer: ^ ditto for any other lines like this under the example

:ref:`Define a Realm Object Model <react-native-define-a-realm-object-model>`.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-open-a-realm:

Configure a Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Before you can work with any data, you need to configure a realm. With

Reviewer: also rethink this intro b/c now first mention of RealmProvider

> ``@realm/react``, anything nested inside ``RealmProvider`` will be able to
> access your realm's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``@realm/react``, anything nested inside a ``<RealmProvider>`` component can
access your realm's data.
```

> To properly configure a realm, tell the realm what kind of data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a realm, tell the realm what kind of data
```

> it will contain. To do this, ensure your realm has access to your data models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it will contain.
```

consider deletion of this sentence?

> In the example below, we write our models in the same file where we configure a 

Reviewer: avoid 1st person plural. style guide

realm, but it's common to write them elswhere and import them where you want to 
create a realm context.

To configure and access a local realm:

> #. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object.
>    The Configuration object defines the parameters of a realm and identifies it.
>    When creating a configuration object, make sure to pass your data models into
>    the ``schema`` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object.
   You must include your Realm object models in the ``schema`` property.
   You can also include optional configuration properties,
   like making the realm read only or adding Atlas Device Sync.
```

#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains

>    context for your realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   React providers and hooks for working with your realm.
```

#. Expose a realm with the ``<RealmProvider>``. To expose a realm, you need a 
   realm context. From that context, extract ``RealmProvider``. This provider 
   contains your realm's context. Components nested within ``<RealmProvider>`` 
   have access to hooks that let you read, write, and update data.

A properly-configured realm might look like this:

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx

>          :language: javascript

Reviewer: in these code examples add line break between these 2 commented things

<img width="795" alt="Screen Shot 2023-03-17 at 11 11 11 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90647379/225944981-403eda7e-b882-43b2-8161-d5d7a7aeba7b.png">

For more information, refer to :ref:`Configure a Realm <react-native-configure-realm>`.

Work With Realm Objects
-----------------------

After you have a data model and a configured realm, you can create, update, or 

> delete :ref:`Realm objects <react-native-object-types>`.

Reviewer: consider deleting the ref?

> To use those tools, you need an open realm. This means that object hooks and 
> methods only work in components that are nested inside of ``<RealmProvider>``;
> In a component wrapped with a ``<RealmProvider>``, the ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to your realm that you can use to work with the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must nest any components that perform these operations inside of a ``<RealmProvider>``. The ``useRealm()`` hook gives you access to your realm
so you can use to perform read and write operations.
```

> Any changes to a Realm object must occur within a 
> :ref:`Write transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any write operations to object in the realm must occur within a 
:ref:`Realm.write() transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.
```

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-find-sort-and-filter-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-watch-a-collection:

Find, Sort, and Filter Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> ``@realm/react`` provides a couple of hooks to help you find a Realm collection
> or object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``@realm/react`` provides hooks to help you find a collection of Realm objects
or a single Realm object.
```

> - ``useQuery()``. Returns :js-sdk:`Realm.Results <Realm.Results.html>` for the object type that you pass to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``useQuery()``: Takes ``Realm.Object`` type as argument. Returns :js-sdk:`Realm.Results <Realm.Results.html>` with all objects in the realm for the type that you pass to it.
```

> - ``useObject()``. Returns one :js-sdk:`Realm.Object <Realm.Object.html>` for the object type and primary key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``useObject()``. Takes ``Realm.Object`` type and primary key as arguments. Returns the Realm object for that primary key.
```

  that you pass to it.

After finding a collection, you can filter or sort the results using 
:ref:`Realm Query Language (RQL) <rql>`.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.jsx
         :language: javascript

For more information, refer to the
:ref:`Qeury Data <react-native-query-data>`.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-create-realm-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-modify-an-object:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-delete-an-object:

Create, Modify, and Delete Realm Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After instantiating ``useRealm()``, you can use Realm methods to create, modify,

> and delete Realm objects inside of a :js-sdk:`write transaction block <Realm.html#write>`.

Reviewer: add small code example with `useRealm()` below this

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-create.tsx
  :language: javascript

For more information, refer to :ref:`CRUD - Create <react-native-create-objects>`.

Update Objects
``````````````

To update a Realm Object, update its properties in a write transaction block:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-modify.tsx
  :language: javascript

For more information, refer to :ref:`CRUD - Update <react-native-update-objects>`.

Delete Objects
``````````````

To delete a Realm Object, call the :js-sdk:`Realm.delete() <Realm.html#delete>`
method in a write transaction block:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-delete.tsx
  :language: javascript

For more information, refer to :ref:`CRUD - Delete <react-native-delete-objects>`.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-close-a-realm:

Add Atlas Device Sync (Optional)
--------------------------------

After getting your local-only realm running, you can add Atlas Device Sync
so that your realm's data can sync with a MongoDB Atlas cluster and other client devices.

> To do this, you need to set up a couple more things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Device Sync, you need to set up a couple more things:
```

- Create a backend in Atlas App Services (see the prerequisites below)
- Configure a Flexible Sync realm instead of a local-only realm

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :ref:`An App Services App <create-a-realm-app>`
- :ref:`Anonymous authentication <anonymous-authentication>` enabled in the App Services UI
- :ref:`Flexible Sync <enable-flexible-sync>` enabled with :ref:`Development Mode <development-mode>`
  on.

Configure and Access a Synced Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure and access a synced realm:

#. Initialize the App using ``<AppProvider>``
#. Authenticate a User with ``<UserProvider>``
#. Configure a Synced Realm with ``<RealmProvider>``

For more information, refer to :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm <react-native-synced-realm>`.

> Initialize the App using <AppProvider>

Author: Created a Jira ticket: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-28675

``````````````````````````````````````

To use App Services features, such as authentication and sync, you must first access
your App Services App using your App ID. You can :ref:`find your App ID <find-your-app-id>`
in the App Services UI.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync-app-provider.test.snippet.app-provider.tsx
  :language: javascript

Authenticate a User with <UserProvider>
```````````````````````````````````````

Use ``UserProvider`` to handle sections of your app that need an authenticated user.

To authenticate and log in a user, provide a ``fallback`` prop for ``<UserProvider>``. This
could be a log in screen component or a simple function that calls :js-sdk:`App.logIn()

> <Realm.App.html#logIn>`. After a user has succesfully authenticated, they can
> access the parts of your app nested within ``<UserProvider>``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Realm.App.html#logIn>`. Users can only
access the parts of your app nested within ``<UserProvider>``
after they have authenticated. If there's no authenticated user,
the ``fallback`` component renders and nested components do not.
```

trying to underscore idea. feel free to wordsmith

When :ref:`anonymous authentication <anonymous-authentication>` is enabled,
users can immediately log into your app without providing any identifying

> information:

Reviewer: consider refactoring as comment on code b/c not essential

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync-user-provider.test.snippet.user-provider.tsx
  :language: javascript

Configure a Synced Realm with <RealmProvider>
`````````````````````````````````````````````

After you have initialized your App, authenticated a user, and defined your
object model, you can configure a synced realm. This is similar to configuring
a local realm; however, you need to add some additional properties to
``<RealmProvider>``.

#. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object.
   The Configuration object defines the parameters of a realm and identifies it.
   When creating a configuration object, make sure to pass your data models into
   the ``schema`` property.
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains
   context for your realm.
#. Expose a realm with the ``<RealmProvider>``. To expose a realm, extract

>    ``RealmProvider`` from the realm context.

Reviewer: include steps 1-3 in code example

#. Add the ``sync`` property to ``<RealmProvider>`` and pass it a
   :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` object.
   This sync object must contain ``flexible: true``.

You need at least one sync subscription before you can read or write synced data.
You can add subscriptions in your components or set up 
:ref:`initial subscriptions <react-native-sync-bootstrap-initial-subscriptions>` on
``<RealmProvider>``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.configure-expose-realm.tsx
  :language: javascript
  :emphasize-lines: 6-17

The syntax to create, read, update, and delete objects in a synced realm is
identical to the syntax for non-synced realms. While you work with local data, a

> background thread efficiently integrates, uploads, and downloads changesets.

Reviewer: add a 'to learn more...' paragraph linking to https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/realm/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-26636/sdk/react-native/sync-data/configure-a-synced-realm/

   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

This page demonstrates how to use Realm Database using the React Native SDK.

Before you begin, :ref:`install the Realm React Native SDK <react-native-install>`.

About the @realm/react Library
------------------------------

:github:`@realm/react </realm/realm-js/tree/master/packages/realm-react>` is a

> library used in the React Native SDK. It provides state-aware React hooks for Realm data. The hooks watch the Realm data and re-render components as needed.

Author: Excellent point. I'm happy with package. I'll address throughout.

The React Native SDK documentation uses the ``@realm/react``
npm package for examples and describing concepts.

Set Up Your Realm App
---------------------

After installing the ``realm`` and ``@realm/react`` packages, there are a
few more things to set up before you can access your realm and work with local
data:

- Import hooks from ``@realm/react``
- Define an object model
- Configure a realm

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-import-realm:

> Import Context From @realm/react

Author: I think we already mostly have this structure. I'm a bit confused about the order you have though. Don't you need to extract the hooks from the realm context? So, that would naturally happen within your proposed "Create your realm context object and setup your providers" step.

The sample for "Configure a realm" has this to get realm provider and hooks at the same time:
``` js
// Create a realm context
const {RealmProvider, useRealm, useObject, useQuery} =
createRealmContext(realmConfig);
```

Is this the expected pattern?

> Import Context From @realm/react

Reviewer 2: Yes that's all correct.  It's just the order of operations.  Right now the docs have this section:
```
Import Context From @realm/react
```
Which is before modeling data which says:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the top of your source files where you want to use Realm, import the
``@realm/react`` context and providers.

> ``AppProvider`` and ``UserProvider`` are only necessary if you want to use
> :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <react-native-realm-sync>` or other App Services.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

do not mention these here as you're not talking about them in this section

To define a Realm object type: 

#. Create a class that extends :js-sdk:`Realm.Object <Realm.Object.html>`.
   For TypeScript, include the class name as a type.
   This lets you use the class with other Realm SDK methods
   that accept ``Realm.Object`` types.
#. Add a ``schema`` field.
#. For the ``schema`` value, create an object that contains ``properties`` and 
   ``name`` properties. The name value must be unique among object types in a Realm object model.

To learn more, refer to
:ref:`Define a Realm Object Model <react-native-define-a-realm-object-model>`.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-define-model.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.setup-define-model.jsx
         :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-open-a-realm:

Configure a Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before you can work with data, you need to configure a realm. This means you need

> to set up context and providers from ``@realm/react``. To learn more about
> the different providers refer to :ref:`Configure a Realm <react-native-configure-realm>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to set up context and providers from ``@realm/react``. To learn more, refer to :ref:`Configure a Realm <react-native-configure-realm>`.
```

   like making the realm read only or adding Atlas Device Sync.
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains
   React providers and hooks for working with your realm.
#. Expose a realm with ``<RealmProvider>``. To expose a realm, you need a 
   realm context. From that context, extract ``RealmProvider``, which 
   contains your realm's context.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript

Work With Realm Objects
-----------------------

After you have a data model and a configured realm, you can create, read, update, or 
delete Realm objects.

You must nest any components that perform these operations inside of a 
``<RealmProvider>``. The ``useRealm()`` hook enables you to perform read and 
write operations in your realm.

> Any write operations to object in the realm must occur within a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All write operations to object in the realm must occur within a 
```

:ref:`Realm.write() transaction <react-native-write-transactions>` block.

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-find-sort-and-filter-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-watch-a-collection:

Find, Sort, and Filter Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``@realm/react`` provides hooks to help you find a collection of Realm objects
or a single Realm object.

- ``useQuery()``: Takes ``Realm.Object`` type as argument. Returns 
  :js-sdk:`Realm.Results <Realm.Results.html>` with all objects in the realm
  for the type that you pass to it.
- ``useObject()``. Takes ``Realm.Object`` type and primary key as arguments.
  Returns the Realm object for the primary key that you pass to it.

After finding a collection, you can filter or sort the results using 
:ref:`Realm Query Language (RQL) <rql>`.

> To learn more, refer to the :ref:`Qeury Data <react-native-query-data>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, refer to the :ref:`Query Data <react-native-query-data>`.
```

         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.jsx
         :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-create-realm-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-modify-an-object:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-delete-an-object:

Create, Modify, and Delete Realm Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After instantiating ``useRealm()``, you can use Realm methods to create, modify,
and delete Realm objects inside of a :js-sdk:`write transaction block <Realm.html#write>`.

To learn more, refer to :ref:`Write Transactions <react-native-write-transactions>`.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-userealm.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-userealm.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript

Create Objects
``````````````

> To create a new Realm Object, specify the object type, pass in the object's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new Realm object, specify the object type, pass in the object's
```

> initialized values, and add it to the realm in a write transaction block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
initial values, and add it to the realm in a write transaction block.
```

To learn more, refer to :ref:`CRUD - Delete <react-native-delete-objects>`.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-delete.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.objects-delete.jsx
         :language: javascript

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-close-a-realm:

Add Atlas Device Sync (Optional)
--------------------------------

After getting your local-only realm running, you can add Atlas Device Sync
so that your realm's data can sync with a MongoDB Atlas cluster and other client devices.

To use Device Sync, you need to set up a couple more things:

- Create a backend in Atlas App Services (see the prerequisites below)
- Configure a Flexible Sync realm instead of a local-only realm

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :ref:`An App Services App <create-a-realm-app>`
- :ref:`Anonymous authentication <anonymous-authentication>` enabled in the App 
  Services UI
- :ref:`Flexible Sync <enable-flexible-sync>` enabled with 

>   :ref:`Development Mode <development-mode>` on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :ref:`Development Mode <development-mode>` on
```

consistency w prev bullet points.

Configure and Access a Synced Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure and access a synced realm:

#. Initialize the App using ``<AppProvider>``
#. Authenticate a User with ``<UserProvider>``
#. Configure a Synced Realm with ``<RealmProvider>``

To learn more, refer to :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm <react-native-synced-realm>`.

Initialize the App using <AppProvider>
``````````````````````````````````````

> To use App Services features, such as authentication and sync, you must first access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use App Services features, such as authentication and Device Sync, you must first access
```

your App Services App using your App ID. You can :ref:`find your App ID <find-your-app-id>`
in the App Services UI.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync-app-provider.test.snippet.app-provider.tsx
  :language: javascript

Authenticate a User with <UserProvider>
```````````````````````````````````````

> Use ``UserProvider`` to handle sections of your app that need an authenticated user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the ``<UserProvider>`` to handle sections of your app that need an authenticated user.
```

To authenticate and log in a user, provide a ``fallback`` prop for ``<UserProvider>``. 
This could be a log in screen component or a simple function that calls 
:js-sdk:`App.logIn() <Realm.App.html#logIn>`. 

Users can only access the parts of your app nested within ``<UserProvider>``
after they have authenticated. If there's no authenticated user,
the ``fallback`` component renders and nested components do not.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync-user-provider.test.snippet.user-provider.tsx
  :language: javascript

Configure a Synced Realm with <RealmProvider>
`````````````````````````````````````````````

After you have initialized your App, authenticated a user, and defined your
object model, you can configure a synced realm. This is similar to configuring

> a local realm; however, you need to add some additional properties to

Author: Ah, yeah. Thank you for noticing my semicolon. I love them, but there's almost never any reason to use them - they just confuse people.

``<RealmProvider>``.

#. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object.
   The Configuration object defines the parameters of a realm and identifies it.
   When creating a configuration object, make sure to pass your data models into
   the ``schema`` property.
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains

>    context for your realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   app-wide access to your realm.
```

let's not use 'context' while defining context.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: javascript
         :emphasize-lines: 34-45
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript
         :emphasize-lines: 31-42

The syntax to create, read, update, and delete objects in a synced realm is
identical to the syntax for non-synced realms. While you work with local data, a
background thread efficiently integrates, uploads, and downloads changesets.

To learn more, refer to :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm <react-native-synced-realm>`.

Next: Check out the Template Apps and Tutorial
----------------------------------------------

If you are interested in a guided experience, you can read our
:ref:`Realm React Native SDK tutorial <react-native-tutorial>` that expands on
the template app.

You could also check out the :ref:`template app <template-apps>` to experiment
with the React Native SDK on your own. The React Native SDK template app is a

> customizable application built on a Flexible Sync Realm database.

Reviewer: please do some additional edits on this. the first paragraph mentions the template app which you haven't yet introduced.

   You can also include optional configuration properties,
   like making the realm read only or adding Atlas Device Sync.
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext()``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains
   React providers and hooks for working with your realm.
#. Expose a realm with ``<RealmProvider>``. To expose a realm, you need a 
   realm context. From that context, extract ``<RealmProvider>``, which 
   contains your realm's context.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: typescript
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript

Work With Realm Objects
-----------------------

After you have a data model and a configured realm, you can create, read, update, or 
delete Realm objects.

You must nest any components that perform these operations inside of a 

> ``<RealmProvider>``. The ``useRealm()`` hook enables you to perform read and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``<RealmProvider>``. The ``useRealm()``, ``useQuery()``, and ``useObject()`` hooks enables you to perform read and 
```

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.tsx
         :language: typescript
         :emphasize-lines: 40, 41
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-find-sort-filter.test.snippet.find-sort-filter.jsx
         :language: javascript
         :emphasize-lines: 37, 38

.. _react-native-quickstart-local-create-realm-objects:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-modify-an-object:
.. _react-native-quickstart-local-delete-an-object:

Create, Modify, and Delete Realm Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After accessing the realm with ``useRealm()``, you can create, modify,
and delete objects inside of the realm in a :js-sdk:`Realm.write() transaction block <Realm.html#write>`.

To learn more, refer to :ref:`Write Transactions <react-native-write-transactions>`.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-userealm.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: typescript

>          :emphasize-lines: 40, 45-50

Reviewer: the 2nd emphasize-lines block is wrong

   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-userealm.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript

>          :emphasize-lines: 37, 42-47

Reviewer: the 2nd emphasize-lines block is wrong

You can add subscriptions in your components or set up 
:ref:`initial subscriptions <react-native-sync-bootstrap-initial-subscriptions>` on
``<RealmProvider>``.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
   
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.tsx
         :language: javascript
         :emphasize-lines: 34-45
   
   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/js/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.quickstart-setup.jsx
         :language: javascript
         :emphasize-lines: 31-42

The syntax to create, read, update, and delete objects in a synced realm is
identical to the syntax for non-synced realms. While you work with local data, a
background thread efficiently integrates, uploads, and downloads changesets.

To learn more, refer to :ref:`Configure a Synced Realm <react-native-synced-realm>`.

Next: Check out the Template Apps and Tutorial
----------------------------------------------

If you are interested in a guided experience, you can read our
:ref:`Realm React Native SDK tutorial <react-native-tutorial>`. This tutorial

> implements and expands on a customizable :ref:`template app <template-apps>` 
> built on a Flexible Sync Realm database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implements and expands on a base React Native app
built with Realm database and Device Sync.
```

> You could also use the template app to experiment with the React Native SDK on 
> your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could also use the template app to experiment with the React Native SDK on 
your own. To set up the template app, refer to :ref:`template-apps`
in the Atlas App Services documentation.
```

link to provide context on where they can find

> - :ref:`Flexible Sync <enable-flexible-sync>` enabled with :ref:`Development Mode <development-mode>`
>   on and an ``owner_id`` field in the :guilabel:`Queryable Fields` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`Flexible Sync <enable-flexible-sync>` enabled with :ref:`Development Mode <development-mode>`
  on.
```

i'm fairly certain that developer mode does this automatically now, but worth 2x checking. also there was never an 'owner_id' field in the model, so would have to be smthn else

Author: Ah, yep. You're right. Thanks for catching this.

> Configure and Access a Flexible Sync realm
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure and Access a Synced Realm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

To configure and access a synced realm:

#. Initialize the App using ``<AppProvider>``
#. Authenticate a User with ``<UserProvider>``
#. Configure a Synced Realm with ``<RealmProvider>``

Initialize the App using <AppProvider>
``````````````````````````````````````

To use App Services features, such as authentication and sync, you must first access
your App Services App using your App ID. You can :ref:`find your App ID <find-your-app-id>`
in the App Services UI.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.configure-expose-realm.tsx
  :language: javascript
  :emphasize-lines: 4, 14

Authenticate a User with <UserProvider>
```````````````````````````````````````

> Use ``UserProvider`` to handle sections of your app that need an authenticated user.

Reviewer: i think it's very important that this example show what the `LogIn` component could look like and how it uses the useApp hook.

Author: Great point! I've refactored this into its own test file. I thought about re-using what you did for app services login, but there are a few tweaks I wanted to make for this context.

> To authenticate and log in a user, provide a fallback for ``<UserProvider>``. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To authenticate and log in a user, provide a ``fallback`` prop for ``<UserProvider>``. This
```

object model, you can configure a synced realm. This is similar to configuring
a local realm; however, you need to add some additional properties to
``<RealmProvider>``.

#. Create the realm's :js-sdk:`Configuration <Realm.html#~Configuration>` object.
   The Configuration object defines the parameters of a realm and identifies it.
   When creating a configuration object, make sure to pass your data models into
   the ``schema`` property.
#. Create a realm context with ``createRealmContext``. A realm context is a 
   `React Context object <https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html>`__ that contains
   context for your realm.
#. Expose a realm with the ``<RealmProvider>``. To expose a realm, extract
   ``RealmProvider`` from the realm context.
#. Add the ``sync`` property to ``<RealmProvider>`` and pass it a
   :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>` object.
   This sync object must contain ``flexible: true``.

You need at least one sync subscription before you can read or write synced data.
You can add subscriptions in your components or set up 
:ref:`initial subscriptions <react-native-sync-bootstrap-initial-subscriptions>` on

> ``<RealmProvider>``.

Reviewer: imo it's very important that the code example here includes adding a subscription. this is an essential step to setting up a realm w flex sync. 

maybe you could use the initialSubscriptions callback in the sync config?

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/react-native/ts/quickstart-sync.test.snippet.configure-expose-realm.tsx
  :language: javascript
  :emphasize-lines: 6-12

> The syntax to create, read, update, and delete objects in a synced realm is i
> dentical to the syntax for non-synced realms. While you work with local data, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax to create, read, update, and delete objects in a synced realm is
identical to the syntax for non-synced realms. While you work with local data, a
```
